{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh10340\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Posted by Florence on Thu 30 March 2023\
Upcoming Wellington Regionals\
The New Zealand Schools Debating Council will be running the annual Wellington Regionals School Debating two-day tournament this weekend! It will be held at Wellington College on the 1st and 2nd of April. \
Wellington\'92s annual Regionals Debating two-day tournament will be held this weekend on April the 1st and 2nd. \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 This year we are particularly focused on development so the tournament will be valuable for both your experienced and new debaters. Additionally, we particularly encourage new schools to consider entering a team this year. It\'92s a great opportunity for students to develop their debating skills and compete against other like minded students in the region! \
\
Comment by Katherine:\
What year groups are allowed to enter?\
\
Comment by Jane:\
Regionals this year was awesome! Congrats to the WGC team for an amazing iron man final! \
\
Comment by Chris: \
Exciting! This was one of my highlights of debating in high school. \
\
Posted by Ri on Sun 19 March 2023\
Prem A Round 2\
Kia ora everyone! Unfortunately, we have been unable to secure a school to host the upcoming Prem A Round 2 debates. This means that Round 2 will be postponed till Tuesday the 4th of April. If any central schools are able to host this round, please let me know either through email or in this comment section. Thank you!\
\
Comment by Rosie:\
How many rooms will be needed? We might be able to accomodate.\
\
Comment by John:\
I am able to adjudicate this round.\
\
Comment by Sam:\
Good luck to all competing teams!}